I am writing to ask that you do everything in your power as my representative to help end systemic racism and better the lives of ALL residents of Vancouver.

I need not describe to you the horrific recent events in Minnesota where a white police officer killed a Black man named George Floyd by kneeling on his neck for almost 9 minutes. In Canada, Black and Indigenous people also face this level of violence: in May of this year, Regis Korchinski-Paquet, an Afro-Indigenous woman, fell to her death from an apartment balcony after police were called. In June, Chantel Moore, a First Nations woman, was fatally shot by police in New Brunswick carrying out a wellness check. Over the years, Canadian police have also killed many other Black and Indigenous people, including D’Andre Campell, Eishia Hudson, Jason Collins, Jermaine Carby, Abdi Hirsi, Andrew Loku, and Jean-Pierre Bony and many others. Imagine how many more injustices have gone unreported.

In Canada, we often boast about the lack of racism in our country, particularly in comparison to the US. It’s easy to think that anti-Blackness is an American issue so we feel better about ourselves, especially when the media portrays it that way, but this isn’t true.

When I walk outside I am not viewed as a threat. My parents never had to explain how my race impacts my life. And I attend school on the unceded territory of the Musqueam people.

Europeans colonized this continent, stole land and resources from Indigenous peoples, and forcibly brought Black people from Africa as slaves. Black and Indigenous communities, families, and bodies were abused as property for profit. Even after slavery and signed treaties, the government has not allowed them to build their lives — it legally denied them the right to vote, get an education, or own homes and businesses. Black and Indigenous people live under a constant threat of violence that continues today. Their oppression has not ended; it has only changed form.

Though there has been progress, this unfair system is still winning. Throughout hundreds of years, our government is still killing Black and Indigenous people, and little is being done.

This is why I support the Black Lives Matter movement and Indigenous sovereignty.

Part of that support means addressing my own unconscious bias and speaking up to address oppression and bias in my community. As an elected official, I trust that you will do the same.
